So welcome back, guys.
Now, next, let us discuss the composition of what will address so supporters during the course of
execution of a process C.P.U generates, which will address of 32 bits.
So, for example, let us say that the CPA generates the following, which will address.
Now, if your system is a 32 bit system, then the virtual address is a 32 bit unsigned integer.
If your system is a 64 bit system, then the virtual address that is generated by CPU will be 64 bit
unsigned integer.
So let us suppose that the virtual address that is generated by the CPU is a 32 bit unsigned integer.
So this 32 bit of virtual address can always be split it up into two parts.
The first part is the first 20 bits and the second part is the last 12 bits of what an address.
So the most significant bits represents the virtual page number in the process, which will address
the space.
And the least significant blackbird's represents about number within a page.
Now, we already know that why we have chosen exactly 20 bits and exactly bits in order to split what
will address into two parts.
Twenty bucks means that you'll need 20 bits in order to uniquely identify a virtual page inside a process
which will address the space.
And you need blackbox in order to uniquely identify a particular byte inside a virtual page.
Does the virtual address, which we have taken the following as an example, simply means an address
which is within the page No.
One zero four eight five six zero.
That does.
This is the virtual page number and inside this virtual page at an offset three three two eight from
the beginning of the page, it means that we are trying to access byte number three, three to eight
inside a virtual page, number one zero four eight five six zero.
So let's try to visualize this with the help of a diagram.
So let us suppose that we have a virtual page number and the following diagram and CPU generates the
following, which will address during the course of execution of a program.
So you can see the enlarged view of this Whelchel page number is here and you can see that inside this
virtual page, there are already four zero nine six bytes starting from zero to buy two byte number
four zero nine five.
So this is what's on page number one zero four eight five six zero and add an offset of three three
to eight.
We are trying to access this bite number in this page.
So you can see that Talbert's represents an offset within the page that is Talbert's help us to identify
the exact bite location which the CPU is trying to access within our virtual page.
So this distance is offset does take away from this slide is that that the virtual address can always
be split it up into two parts.
The first part, identify the virtual page number and process which will address the space, and the
second part, help us to find the exact location within a virtual page.
Does the virtual address composition, always composed of two parts, the virtual page number plus offset
within a page, right?